How to test our web application (generally):

As you can read on the About page (index page) of our site, Pack&Match is a food management program that connects Harvard University Dining Services (HUDS) to local food shelters. Basically, we allow food shelters to register and make requests for food, and then we tell HUDS the top shelters to donate to that day by implementing a matching algorithm. Right now, our site is mostly meant to be used by shelters who are requesting food from HUDS only. But as seen on our Register page, we still allow other entities to register as donors. Upon registering, they would see the same donation forms and be able to use the same matching algorithms as HUDS. However, they would need to communicate with the other donors to see when each one is donating, because our current code is constructed so that only one donor can donate once on a given day. We currently do not have a way for the donors to interact with one another, so the best way to test our website is to register only one donor (HUDS) and to test how it interacts with the requests from multiple shelters. For example, this is how we would present our project at the CS50 fair.

Before logging in:

When you first click on a link to our website, you will see our About page. This just contains some information about Pack&Match (name/motto, description, and short video). The nav bar at the top of the page allows you to register, log in, or click on Pack&Match. Clicking Pack&Match is mostly meant to take you to the HUDS Home page or Shelter Home page, but it requires a login. So if you click it before logging in, you will just see our Login page. Before logging in, you must register either as a donor (in our current case, HUDS) or as a requester (a shelter). Alerts and apologies will notify you about mistakes such as empty fields, incorrect password confirmations, and incorrect usernames/passwords. When you register as either HUDS or a requester/shelter, please input a valid address -- our web application uses a Distance Matrix API from Mapquests so that real distances can be calculated between two addresses.

Walkthrough (as a donor):

After registering and then logging in as a donor, you will be redirected to the donor homepage (this is the page that the Pack&Match icon in the navigation bar will redirect to, if you are logged in as a donor). The two options, in the form of buttons, on this page are to add a donation (“Add Donation”), and to donate all current donations now (“Donate Now”).

Clicking “Add Donation” will take you to our donation form, where you must input a nonnegative integer for each field (soup, salad, sandwich, entree, side, dessert) representing the number of servings you want to donate. You can add donations throughout the day (or throughout several days) before finally deciding to donate everything accumulated so far.

When you want to donate everything, you can click the “Donate Now” button on the homepage. If you haven’t registered any shelters yet, it will say that no requests have been made today. So you might have to register as a shelter and make some requests for the Donate Now button to work (we need requests to run our algorithm)! Since our code doesn’t allow a shelter to request for today (mentioned in our Design Document), you may have to manually enter in the database’s requests table some requests for today’s date. Using just our web app, you’d have to request for tomorrow and wait until tomorrow to donate!

On the other hand, if shelters have made requests for the day you decide to donate on, those requests are entered into our matching algorithm and the top three shelters (or total shelters if fewer than three) are ranked and displayed for you to see. Also displayed are the recommended donation amounts for each shelter, with larger donations to the higher-ranked shelters (so it is possible that some of the chosen shelters would get 0 donations if they have run out by then). Finally, your donation inventory is displayed both before and after the donations (we assume that the leftovers will get thrown away). Underneath this information is a Deliver button, which you can click to start over with accumulating donations.

You can press Deliver at most once a day (in fact, only one donor in total can donate once a day, as mentioned above). This is because we take all the requests in an entire day and enter them into our algorithm; we do not clear past requests when a donor presses Deliver, so if you want to accumulate excess inventory over a few days and then donate them all at once, you can do so by continuously submitting donation forms on our website and our algorithm will take a sum over all the days of inventory when you are ready to deliver. However, you can accumulate donations for as many days as you want before donating (the shelters who requested food on these days would simply be ignored). After delivering, you will be taken to a short page thanking you for donating. You can then begin accumulating more requests.

Walkthrough (as a shelter):

Once you’ve registered as a requester from our index page, you will be redirected to the homepage for requesters and you can now log in using your username and password. The homepage will contain two different cards, one labeled “Welcome, Shelters!” where there is a button for you to access the food to request food donations, and another card labeled “Thank you for requesting” where there is a button for you to access a webpage that displays a history of all requests ever made by you as a shelter.

First click on “Add Request” to make your first food donation request as a shelter! You will be taken to the “Request Form” where you can input servings of all the food items you would like to request; you must input a number into each food category (i.e. enter zero if you want no items of a particular food group), or else you will get a warning and you won’t be able to submit your form. Make sure that in “Requested Delivery Date”, you input a date that is at least one day in the future, or else you will see an apology. (Interestingly, our program runs on UTC time, which is 5 hours ahead of EST.) The back button at the bottom of this page takes you back to the shelter homepage.

Once you’ve submitted a request you will see a confirmation page where there are two buttons, one that reads “Start Another Request’ that will take you back to the “Request Form”, and another button saying “View Requests” that takes you to a table displaying all of the requests you have ever made as a shelter through our web application. “View Requests” can also be accessed from the shelter homepage.

If you make a donation request and then suddenly remember that you forgot something, you can just submit another form for a donation to be made on that same day and our web application will sum up the values when making calculations. You can make as many requests as you want, for any date in the future.

A limitation of our web application is that there exists no way of notifying shelters which dates their delivery requests were satisfied, who had delivered to them, or how much was delivered (as some orders an incompletely satisfied -- HUDS just does their best). Our web application assumes that after clicking ‘Donate Now’, HUDS will themselves contact the shelters and let them know how much of each food category they will receive, and then deliver to the addresses provided on our web application.
